DOCS-1449: Add filter-camera tutorial (#2348)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/tutorials/projects/filtered-camera-module.md

For more information, see [Add the data management service](/data/capture/#add-the-data-management-service).

### Configure data capture for a camera component

Once you have added the data management service, enable image data capture for your camera component:

1. On your robot's **Config** page in the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com), navigate to the **Components** tab.
1. In the configuration pane for your configured camera component (named `my-webcam` in the above steps), find the **Data capture configuration** section, and click the **Add method** button to enable data capture for this camera.

   - Set the **Type** to `ReadImage` and the **Frequency** to `0.333`.
     This will capture an image from the camera roughly once every 3 seconds.
     You can adjust the capture frequency if you want the camera to capture more or less image data, but avoid configuring data capture to higher rates than your hardware can handle, as this could lead to performance degradation.

   - Set the **Mime type** to `image/jpeg` to configure image data capture.
   - Ensure that the toggle on the right-hand side is set to **On**.

>      {{< imgproc src="/tutorials/filtered-camera-module/configure-webcam-data-capture.png" alt="The camera component configuration pane in the Viam app with data capture configured and enabled" resize="1400x" >}}

Author: I took this on the laptop screen, its width is dictated by trying to include the on/off toggle. I can ship without it, but then we risk users missing that step. "no bright green thing in the screenshot, so my eyes glazed right past the grey deactivated toggle as a must-be non-entity".

Just took another to be sure: exactly the same measurements.

I can cut the on/off switch to cut the width in half. But I hesitate per above.

1. Click **Save Config** at the bottom of the window to save your changes.

> 1. In the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com), navigate to the [**Data**](/data/view/) tab, where you should see images captured by your camera component appear roughly every 6 seconds.

Author: Right, good point! At this point in the tut, the user may well have set a non-default value. Updating!

   {{< imgproc src="/tutorials/filtered-camera-module/train-a-new-model.png" alt="The models tab in the Viam app showing the configuration for training a new object detection model using the viam-figure dataset and viam-figure label" resize="1000x" >}}

   Your model will begin training on the images you have tagged, and should be ready after a short time.
   You can view your model's training progress from the **Models** subtab under the [**DATA** page](https://app.viam.com/data/view).

   {{< imgproc src="/tutorials/filtered-camera-module/train-model-training.png" alt="The models subtab under the data tab in the Viam app showing a model being actively trained" resize="800x" >}}

   Models that are still being trained appear under **Training**, while models that have completed training and are ready for use appear under **Models**.

   {{< imgproc src="/tutorials/filtered-camera-module/train-model-complete.png" alt="The models subtab under the data tab in the Viam app, showing a model that has completed training and is ready for use" resize="1200x" >}}

> If you already have a model you want to use, you can [upload an existing model](/ml/upload-model/) instead and skip this step.

Author: Added a section on uploading and using a pre-trained model!

   {{< imgproc src="/tutorials/filtered-camera-module/configure-transform-camera.png" alt="The transform camera component configuration pane with required attributes configured" resize="800x" >}}

1. Click **Save Config** at the bottom of the window to save your changes.

### Test your ML model on a live camera feed

Now that you've configured a transform camera, you can see your ML model in action from the **Control** tab:

1. On your machine's **Control** page in the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com), enable the toggle for both your camera component (`my-webcam`) and your transform camera (`my-transform-camera`).
   You can find these toggles under their respective component: click a control pane to expand it if it is collapsed.
   The screenshot below shows a machine with a configured `base` component, so the two toggles appear under the `base` control pane, but you can always find them under their own control pane as well.
1. The camera component displays the raw camera feed, but the transform camera will additionally overlay a bounding box on the same feed if a matching object is detected.

>    Try placing an object you trained your ML model on in front of the camera.

Author: Ah, and this is good also now that the ML model might be pre-trained, and merely uploaded by the users -- not trained. Thanks!

   If you used a different label when drawing your bounding boxes and training your ML model, supply it here instead of `viam-figure`.
   If you used multiple labels, specify them on multiple lines like so:

   ```json
   {
     "vision": "my-vision-service",
     "window_seconds": 10,
     "objects": {
       "apple": 0.6,
       "orange": 0.6,
       "pear": 0.6
     },
     "camera": "my-webcam"
   }
   ```

1. Next, in the **Data capture configuration** section on the `filtered-camera` module configuration pane, click the **Add method** button to enable data capture for this camera.

   - Set the **Type** to `ReadImage` and the **Frequency** to `0.333`.
     This will capture an image from the camera roughly once every 3 seconds.
     You can adjust the capture frequency if you want the camera to capture more or less image data, but avoid configuring data capture to higher rates than your hardware can handle, as this could lead to performance degradation.

   - Set the **Mime type** to `image/jpeg` to configure image data capture.
   - Ensure that the toggle on the right-hand side is set to **On**.

1. Click **Save Config** at the bottom of the window to save your changes.

>    {{< imgproc src="/tutorials/filtered-camera-module/configure-filtered-camera.png" alt="The filtered-camera modular component configuration pane with required attributes configured and data capture enabled" resize="1500x" >}}

Author: Ah same story, it's the on/off switch here too. Same measurements when retaken, also on laptop screen.

### Test the `filtered-camera` module

With everything configured, the `filtered-camera` module is now ready to selectively capture only images that meet your ML model criteria.

1. On your machine's **Config** page in the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com), navigate to the **Components** tab.
1. Find your camera component (`my-webcam`) and ensure that **Data capture** is _disabled_.

>    {{< imgproc src="/tutorials/filtered-camera-module/data-capture-off.png" alt="The camera component configuration pane showing data capture disabled" resize="1600x" >}}

Author: same story with this pic too.

With the data management service, a Viam machine can capture data from a variety of components and sync that data to the Viam app.
However, if your machine captures a large volume of data, especially image data such as pictures, you may wish to control which specific images are captured or uploaded.

For example, imagine that you have positioned your machine's camera to view a busy city street.
Your machine will happily capture as many pictures as its configured capture rate dictates, resulting in potentially a large number of images captured over the course of a day.
If you wanted to see if any fancy sports cars might have driven by, you might have to search through many images to find out!

Instead, you can use the `filtered-camera` module to be able to selectively capture and sync only those images that meet the specific criteria you've outlined in a machine learning (ML) model.
For example, you could train an ML model that is focused on sports cars, and only capture images from the camera feed when a sports car is detected in the frame.

> This tutorial will demonstrate using the `filtered-camera` module to selectively capture images only when a specific object is detected within the camera feed: the Viam wooden figure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will learn how to use the `filtered-camera` module to selectively capture images only when a specific object is detected within the camera feed: the Viam wooden figure.
```

Author: Yesss I will use this phrasing forever now, I never know how to say this without passive future second person singular tense case voice!

     You can adjust the capture frequency if you want the camera to capture more or less image data, but avoid configuring data capture to higher rates than your hardware can handle, as this could lead to performance degradation.

   - Set the **Mime type** to `image/jpeg`.
   - Ensure that the toggle on the right-hand side is set to **On**.

     {{< imgproc src="/tutorials/filtered-camera-module/configure-webcam-data-capture.png" alt="The camera component configuration pane in the Viam app with data capture configured and enabled" resize="1400x" >}}

1. Click **Save Config** at the bottom of the window to save your changes.
1. In the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com), navigate to the [**Data**](/data/view/) tab, where you should see images captured by your camera component appearing steadily.
   If you see images appear here, proceed to the next step.
   If you do not see images appear after a short time, see the [troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section for further guidance.

For more information see [Configure data capture](/data/capture/#configure-data-capture-for-individual-components) and [Configure cloud sync](/data/cloud-sync/).

> ## Label images and train a machine learning (ML) model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The machine learning (ML) model for filtering
```

Now that your camera component is steadily capturing images to the Viam app, you can train a machine learning (ML) model on those images to be able to detect certain objects in the camera feed.

> 

Reviewer: I think this is where you'd want to also say this. 
```suggestion

{{< alert title="Note" color="note" >}}
If you want to skip training your own model, you can use skip to [Upload an existing ML model]() and use a provided model or an exisitng model you already have.
{{< /alert >}}

```

Author: Beat you to it :D

The `filtered-camera` module supports two modes of filtering:

- [Detection](/ml/vision/detection/), where you train an ML model by drawing bounding boxes around distinct objects within captured images, to enable your machine to be able to detect those objects on its own.
- [Classification](/ml/vision/classification/), where you train an ML model by tagging images with a class label that best describes it, to enable your machine to be able to classify similar images on its own.

> This tutorial demonstrates configuring a _detection_ model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will learn to configure a _detection_ model.
```

   Your model will begin training on the images you have tagged, and should be ready after a short time.
   You can view your model's training progress from the **Models** subtab under the [**DATA** page](https://app.viam.com/data/view).

   {{< imgproc src="/tutorials/filtered-camera-module/train-model-training.png" alt="The models subtab under the data tab in the Viam app showing a model being actively trained" resize="800x" >}}

   Models that are still being trained appear under **Training**, while models that have completed training and are ready for use appear under **Models**.

   {{< imgproc src="/tutorials/filtered-camera-module/train-model-complete.png" alt="The models subtab under the data tab in the Viam app, showing a model that has completed training and is ready for use" resize="1200x" >}}

For more information, see [Train a model](/ml/train-model/).

#### Upload an existing ML model

If you already have a model you want to use, you can upload an existing model instead.

> For example, you could use the object detection model we trained for the [Turn on Lights with Object Detection tutorial](/tutorials/projects/light-up/), which was trained on many common objects, including animals, vehicles, household items, and sports gear. You can download that model here:

Reviewer: I don't think we trained this, I think it's publicly available
```suggestion
For example, you could use the object detection model we used for the [Turn on Lights with Object Detection tutorial](/tutorials/projects/light-up/), which was trained on many common objects, including animals, vehicles, household items, and sports gear. You can download that model here:
```

You could expand on this in many ways!
For example, you can:

- Train an ML model on familiar faces, so that your machine can capture and upload images of any new faces it encounters, but ignore familiar faces entirely.
- Train an ML model on various common forms of delivery packaging, so that your machine can send you an image of a new delivery, but not clutter your inbox with images of other things, such as cars driving by.
- Train an ML model on a variety of domestic farm animals, so that your machine can alert you if a different kind of animal is detected in the vicinity, without capturing images of every animal.

You can also refine your existing ML model by adding and labelling new images that help the ML model better identify matching objects, and then [upload the new version of your model](/ml/upload-model/#upload-a-new-version-of-a-model) using the ML model service.

If you trained a new model as part of this tutorial, try using the provided [pre-trained model files](#upload-an-existing-ml-model) instead, and then aiming your machine's camera at objects listed in the <file>labels.txt</file> file to see how accurately it is able to detect those objects.

> This tutorial demonstrated using the `filtered-camera` module with [object detection](/ml/vision/detection/), but you can also use it to perform [object classification](/ml/vision/classification/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial you learned how to use the `filtered-camera` module with [object detection](/ml/vision/detection/), but you can also use it to perform [object classification](/ml/vision/classification/).
```

   If you don't see your model name appear here, ensure that your model has finished training under the [**Models** subtab](https://app.viam.com/data/models) of the **Data** tab in the Viam app.
1. Click **Save Config** at the bottom of the window to save your changes.

   {{< imgproc src="/tutorials/filtered-camera-module/configure-mlmodel-service.png" alt="The ML model service configuration pane with deploy model on robot selected, and the my-viam-figure-model added" resize="600x" >}}

For more information, see [Create an ML model service](/ml/deploy/#create-an-ml-model-service).

### Add the vision service

Add the vision service to your machine to be able to use the deployed ML model with your camera, and with the `filtered-camera` module.

1. On your machine's **Config** page in the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com), navigate to the **Services** tab.
1. Click the **Create service** button at the bottom of the page, select **Vision**, then select the built-in `ML model` model.
1. Give the service a name, like `my-vision-service`, then click **Create**.

> 1. On the panel that appears, select your trained ML model from the **ML Model** dropdown.

Author: Also removing extra sentence here: not required, we now show models from own training or also uploaded separately in this ML model drowpdown: both tutorial approaches converge on step!

   You can find these toggles under their respective component: click a control pane to expand it if it is collapsed.
   The screenshot below shows a machine with a configured `base` component, so the two toggles appear under the `base` control pane, but you can always find them under their own control pane as well.
1. The camera component displays the raw camera feed, but the transform camera will additionally overlay a bounding box on the same feed if a matching object is detected.
   Try placing an object your ML model can recognize in front of the camera.
   The transform camera should draw a bounding box around that object in the live camera feed, and indicate a confidence threshold for the match.

   {{< imgproc src="/tutorials/filtered-camera-module/transform-camera-overlay.png" alt="The control tab in the Viam app showing both a live camera feed and the live transform camera overlay, with the latter correctly detecting a viam figure with a confidence score of 0.97" resize="800x" >}}

1. When satisfied that your ML model is working well, you can disable both cameras.

>    Alternatively, if the transform camera is not matching reliably, consider adding and labelling more images in your dataset, or lowering the `confidence_threshold` of the transform camera.
>    Ideally, you want your ML model to be able to identify objects with a high level of confidence, which usually is dependent on a robust source dataset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Alternatively, if the transform camera is not matching reliably, you will need to change the model.
   If you trained your model, consider adding and labelling more images in your dataset, or lowering the `confidence_threshold` of the transform camera.
   Ideally, you want your ML model to be able to identify objects with a high level of confidence, which usually is dependent on a robust source dataset.
```

## Add and configure the `filtered-camera` module

With all the prerequisites in place, you are ready to add the `filtered-camera` module to your machine.

1. On your machine's **Config** page in the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com), navigate to the **Components** tab.
1. Click the **Create component** button at the bottom of the page, select **Camera**, then select the `filtered-camera` model.
   You can also search for `filtered-camera` directly.
1. Give the modular camera a name, like `my-filtered-camera`, then click **Create**.
1. On the panel that appears, enter the following configuration into the **Attributes** field:

   ```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
   {
     "vision": "my-vision-service",
     "window_seconds": 10,
     "objects": {
       "viam-figure": 0.6
     },
     "camera": "my-webcam"
   }
   ```

>    This example configures the `filter-camera` module to require a 60% confidence (`0.6`) threshold match for the label `viam-figure`, meaning that it must be at least 60% confident based on your trained ML model that the image contains the labelled object in order to capture it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   This example configures the `filter-camera` module to require a 60% confidence (`0.6`) threshold match for the label `viam-figure`, meaning that it must be at least 60% confident based on your ML model that the image contains the labelled object in order to capture it.
```

   Images that do not meet this threshold do not trigger a successful match.

   Additionally, the example configures a `window_seconds` value of `10` seconds, which controls the duration of a buffer of images captured _previous_ to a successful match.
   With this configuration, images captured up to `10` seconds before the successful match are included in the capture and sync process.

>    If you used a different label when drawing your bounding boxes and training your ML model, supply it here instead of `viam-figure`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If your model uses different labels - if you trained your model, the labels are the ones you assigned when drawing your bounding boxes - supply it here instead of `viam-figure`.
```

Author: Some tweaks here too: linking back to relevant sections.

   Ensure that at least 80% of the images in your dataset are labelled, with the remaining images not containing objects to identify.
   If you want your machine to be able to identify multiple objects, you can add multiple labels per image as well.

> ### Train a new ML model

Reviewer: I think we want to make this more general

"Add a new model" or "Train or upload a new model"

Author: Right on. I've now done I think a better job clarifying flow here: one, or the other. This time with info alerts and callbacks. LMK what you think.

Once your dataset is ready, train a new ML model on that dataset.

> If you already have a trained model that you want to use, skip to the next section.

Reviewer: or want to use a provided model?
